Making the map in hammer

Spawn is a box big enough for the player to start in, that leads the player off onto the left side of the ramp

The floor is a teleporter that shoots the player into a black box the size of the player model + 1 unit, then the player falls down onto another teleporter

This way, when they reach the spawn teleport again, they have no momentum.

The win condition will be defined by being within a range of coordinates that the wintele moves you to.


Next steps
	set up timer on server
	figure out how to get realtime telemetry outside of game
	figure out how to write it to a database?
	figure out which ml library to use

AREA
Action		move mouse and keys
Reward		time to completion
Environment	database outputs of
			player position
			speed
Agent

I got the sourcemod plugin working.  It writes player coordinates, left-right look angle, velocity, and tick to a database every tick.

Now I need to go back in and modify the map so the start point is exactly at 0/0/0 just to make things easier, so I don't have to translate any numbers.

what data do I need to write to the table?

name    range       data type
id		0-64		tinyint unsigned
x       -3k+3k      smallint signed
y       -3k+3k      smallint signed
z       -3k+3k      smallint signed
angle   -180+180    smallint signed
speed   0-3500      smallint unsigned
ticknum 0           int signed

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS playerloc (
	id		TINYINT		UNSIGNED	NOT NULL,
	x		SMALLINT				NOT NULL,
	y		SMALLINT				NOT NULL,
	z		SMALLINT				NOT NULL,
	angle	SMALLINT				NOT NULL,
	speed	SMALLINT	UNSIGNED	NOT NULL,
	ticknum	INT			UNSIGNED	NOT NULL,
	INDEX (id)	
) ENGINE=MyISAM

how do I create the DB table

create a new schema on local
root blading 3 
paste above sql into a query

refreshing all does not list, click table then i icon by it
then you can browse everything

add within the configurations of /addons/sourcemod/configs/databases.cfg
	{
		"driver" "mysql"
		"host" "localhost"
		"database" "dbstats"
		"user" "dbstats" CHANGE THIS LINE TO YOUR USER
		"pass" "dbstats" CHANGE THIS LINE TO YOUR PW
	}


At some point I moved CSS to my SSD and hammer failed to launch because it was still looking for a file called gameinfo.txt on the old hard drive.  Registry keys had to be deleted for it to work again.  Computers, man.