github actions

TL;DR - the files of this site are now autoformatted and generate_articles.py is ran to generate index.html's article list on a git push with Github Actions.  Learning this will provide utility at work so I can set up commit actions with Bitbucket as well.

At work, we use Bitbucket for Git and Jenkins for automation.  I'm interested in checking out Github Actions for a couple things to organize this site.

HTML file formatting
Python file formatting to conform to pep standards
Automatically run index generator on commit

As with the other projects I've done - this isn't always the greatest way to do things.  File formatters cause issues with code, and modification of working code after a commit can lead to errors.  Who cares.  I want to learn Github Actions and this website is a sandbox.


HTML file formatting

Starting off with index.html of this site copy/pasted into a new repo to see how tidy works when ran from github actions, along with a yml telling Github to get the latest ubuntu for the action, install Tidy, format the file, and output the resultant .html.

I honestly did not expect this to take 2 minutes.  I thought I was going to be fighting configurations, formatting, file pathing, and so on.  I blocked off multiple hours to figure this out.  Instead, all I did was push code and Github Actions automatically picked up my YML file and off it went.

Of course, there are multiple errors on the index.html alone due to me handwriting the HTML originally.

Run tidy --indent auto --indent-spaces 4 --tidy-mark no --force-output yes -o index_output.html index.html
line 14 column 9 - Warning: missing </div>
line 31 column 17 - Info: value for attribute "align" missing quote marks
line 13 column 9 - Warning: <center> element removed from HTML5
line 31 column 17 - Warning: <p> attribute "align" not allowed for HTML5
Info: Document content looks like HTML5
Tidy found 3 warnings and 0 errors!

It looks like I need to update some of the HTML on this site, but I'd rather see this project through before I go in a completely different direction.  Also it exited with error code 1 and no logs providing information as to why it failed.  Maybe this is where it takes hours.

I'd guess the issue is something with the command I pass to tidy - - run: tidy --indent auto --indent-spaces 2 --tidy-mark no --force-output yes -o index_output.html index.html .  I can't run that command from cmd on Windows, so here we go, install WSL, reboot, install tidy, try again.